# Discovering-Cross-Domain-Relations-for-Unpaired-Image-To-Image-Translation-Using-GANs

Learning the mapping between an input image and and output image using a training set of image pairs is image-to-image translation. Supervised data is rarely available 
and requires labelling of data. In order to avoid costly pairing, machines are required to learn a mapping function to translate images from one domain to another domain by discovering the relations. This project uses Disco GANs for mapping cross domain relationships for gender conversion and successfully transfers the style, pattern and specific attributes from one domain to another (male to female and vice versa) without the loss of key attributes such as face identity, hair colour, and orientation.

The model couples two GANs, that uses two generators for converting image from domain A to domain B, two discriminators for comparing the original images in domain A to images in domain B and two generators to reconstruct the image from domain B to match the original image in domain A. All images in one domain are presentable by images in another domain, which encourages the mapping between two domains to be one to one rather than many to one. The bidirectional mapping trained helps images in both the domains to resemble in style, pattern and the translated images to consistently appear to change specified attributes such as gender for this application.

The generator of the model contains an encoder- decoder pair which takes an image of size 64 X 64 X 3 at it’s input and outputs an image of size 64 X 64 X 3. The discriminator consists of only an encoder part and takes an image of size 64 X 64 X 3 at its input to produce a scalar output between [0,1]. Convolutions in the encoder and in the discriminator down sample the input by a factor of 2, whereas in the decoder they up-sample the input by a factor of 2.

The computations were conducted on a single machine with an NVIDIA 1080 TI Titan GPU, AMD Ryzen 1700X CPU, and 32 GB of RAM. The total run-time for the optimized hyperparameters on this machine was 13h 06m 36s. At each stage a loss is computed. A binary cross-entropy (BCE) loss function is used to compute both generator loss (GEN) and discriminator loss (DIS). A mean squared error (MSE) loss function is used to compute reconstruction loss (RECON) and a Hinge Loss is used to compute feature mapping loss (FM).
